plop-templates/readme/postamble.md, before:

## Getting Help

Join [our Discord community](https://discord.gg/977kMmFnXc).

## Why?

If you are writing a nodejs application that depends upon binaries being present (like [PocketHost](https://github.com/pockethost/pockethost) does), you can add this package as a dependency and execute the binary via CLI or programmatically. This package will make sure your desired external binaries are always available.

If you just want to grab a binary quickly for your own use, `npx gobot@latest <app>` is quite a bit easier than manually downloading zips and installing binaries in shell paths. Gobot handles it all for you effortlessly.

## Adding your app to the Gobot registry

We want to add native support for lots of binary apps!

If you use publish statically linked binary releases on github, you are already 98% compatible with Gobot. In fact, Gobot may already know how to work with it.

Test it out by running `npx gobot <user>/<repo> --help` (example: `gobot pocketbase/pocketbase --help` for the [https://github.com/pocketbase/pocketbase](https://github.com/pocketbase/pocketbase) project).

Make sure your release name follows these rules:

- Ends in `.zip`, `.tgz`, `.tar.gz`, `.bz2`
- Include the version ([semver](https://semver.org) recommended)
- Include the platform ({{{codecsv platforms}}})
- Include the architecture ({{{codecsv architectures}}})

Note: [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) is a great option if you're publish a Go-based project.

## Contributing

We could use help testing and making sure this works across lots of platforms.

To test a build locally:

```bash
pnpm test
```

Commit message:

enh: add markdown to versions output

plop-templates/readme/postamble.md, after:

## Getting Help

Join [our Discord community](https://discord.gg/977kMmFnXc).

## Why?

If you are writing a nodejs application that depends upon binaries being present (like [PocketHost](https://github.com/pockethost/pockethost) does), you can add this package as a dependency and execute the binary via CLI or programmatically. This package will make sure your desired external binaries are always available.

If you just want to grab a binary quickly for your own use, `npx gobot@latest <app>` is quite a bit easier than manually downloading zips and installing binaries in shell paths. Gobot handles it all for you effortlessly.

## Adding your app to the Gobot registry

We want to add native support for lots of binary apps!

If you use publish statically linked binary releases on github, you are already 98% compatible with Gobot. In fact, Gobot may already know how to work with it.

To see what initial support looks like:

```bash
npx gobot <user>/<repo> --g-show-versions md --g-refresh
```

This will index all the releases from your repo and show you exactly what Gobot sees.

If you see everything you expect, you're golden. If things are missing, it may mean some custom programming. Either way, jump on [Discord](https://discord.gg/977kMmFnXc) and let us know your results.

If you have the flexibility or are starting an ew project, make sure your release names follows these rules:

- Ends in `.zip`, `.tgz`, `.tar.gz`, `.bz2`
- Include the version ([semver](https://semver.org) recommended)
- Include the platform ({{{codecsv platforms}}})
- Include the architecture ({{{codecsv architectures}}})

Note: [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) is a great option if you're publish a Go-based project.

## Contributing

We could use help testing and making sure this works across lots of platforms.

To test a build locally:

```bash
pnpm test
```
