plop-templates/readme/readme.md, before:

![Gobot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/benallfree/gobot/{{{branch}}}/assets/gobot-banner.png)

![](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gobot) ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/gobot) ![](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/t/benallfree/gobot) ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/benallfree/gobot)

# The binary package manager for Node

_Manage and run binaries as `package.json` npm dependencies. CLI and API interfaces._

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [gobot [gobotOptions] <app> [appOptions]](#gobot-gobotoptions-app-appoptions)
- [API](#api)
- [Official Gobot Apps](#official-gobot-apps)
- [Why?](#why)
- [Technical Notes](#technical-notes)
  - [Repository API Rate Limits](#repository-api-rate-limits)
    - [Github API](#github-api)
- [Adding your app to the Gobot registry](#adding-your-app-to-the-gobot-registry)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Introduction

Gobot installs binary apps anywhere `npm` is available. It transparently downloads, installs, and runs binary apps (including semver ranges) for the current operating system and architecture.

Works on Windows, Linux, OS X.

**Features**

- Run any version of [official apps](#official-gobot-apps) and many [unofficial apps](#running-unofficial-apps) from github.
- Binaries are intelligently downloaded and cached
- New binary versions are automatically detected and downloaded
- Efficient - downloads only what is needed

Inspired by [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) and other packages that install binary dependencies

## Quickstart

**Run an [official app](#official-gobot-apps) from anywhere**

```bash
npx gobot <app>
```

[List of official apps](#official-gobot-apps)

**Try running an [unofficial app](#running-unofficial-apps) using github user/repo**

Gobot will examine releases from Github and attempt to decipher versions, platforms, and architectures.

```bash
gobot <user>/<repo> --help
```

**Install gobot globally**

```bash
npm i -g gobot
```

```bash
gobot pocketbase --help
gobot caddy --help
gobot act --help
```

**Use a Gobot app programmatically**

```bash
npm i gobot
```

```js
import { gobot } from 'gobot'
gobot(`pocketbase`).run([`--help`])
```

**Pass environment variables**

In API mode, Gobot does not forward environment variables by default.

```js
import { gobot } from 'gobot'
gobot(`pocketbase`, {
  env: process.env,
}).run([`--help`])
```

**Use a specific version of a Gobot app**

```js
gobot(`pocketbase`, {
  version: `0.19.3`,
}).run([`--help`])
```

**Add an [official app](#official-gobot-apps) as a project dependency**

```bash
npm i gobot-<app>[@version]
```

Gobot will automatically select the specific version of `<app>` you installed and it will stay locked according to your `package.json` constraints.

```bash
npm i gobot-pocketbase@0.19.3
```

```js
import { gobot } from 'gobot'
gobot(`pocketbase`).run([`--help`])
```

## CLI

### `gobot [gobotOptions] <app> [appOptions]`

{{{cliOptionsMd}}}

**Examples**

```bash
# Run `pocketbase serve`
npx gobot pocketbase serve

# Run in gobot debugging mode`
npx gobot --g-debug

# Run a specific PocketBase version
npx gobot pocketbase --g-use-version="0.21.0" # Run this exact version
npx gobot pocketbase --g-use-version="~0.21.0" # Run highest 0.21.z version
npx gobot pocketbase --g-use-version="0.*" # Run highest 0.y.z

# Force gobot to dump cache and refresh PocketBase tags and binaries
npx gobot pocketbase --g-refresh
```

## API

[Full API Docs](https://github.com/benallfree/gobot/tree/{{{branch}}}/docs/readme.md)

## Official Gobot Apps

These apps have single-token names and dedicated helper packages to assist with version locking.

{{{availableAppsMd}}}

### Running unofficial apps

Gobot can run many apps hosted on github. Gobot will examine the releases and attempt to decipher binaries based on version, platform, and architecture.

```bash
gobot <user>/<repo>
```

**Example**

```bash
# Run PocketBase as a direct repo name
# rather than the `pocketbase` alias
gobot pocketbase/pocketbase --help
```

or API:

```ts
gobot(`pocketbase/pocketbase`).run([`--help`])
```

The above command format **_may_** run the app you have in mind. For example, `gobot caddy --help` runs the Caddy by the official name, but `gobot caddyserver/caddy --help` will also run it.

As long as the project uses the github [Releases](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository) feature and includes statically linked binaries with zero dependencies, Gobot can probably run it.

Go apps work flawlessly, if the releases are named well. Gobot was originally named and conceived to support Go apps.

{{{postambleMd}}}

Commit message:

feat: add `inspect` command to CLI

plop-templates/readme/readme.md, after:

![Gobot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/benallfree/gobot/{{{branch}}}/assets/gobot-banner.png)

![](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gobot) ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/gobot) ![](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/t/benallfree/gobot) ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/benallfree/gobot)

# The binary package manager for Node

_Manage and run binaries as `package.json` npm dependencies. CLI and API interfaces._

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [gobot [gobotOptions] <app> [appOptions]](#gobot-gobotoptions-app-appoptions)
- [API](#api)
- [Official Gobot Apps](#official-gobot-apps)
- [Why?](#why)
- [Technical Notes](#technical-notes)
  - [Repository API Rate Limits](#repository-api-rate-limits)
    - [Github API](#github-api)
- [Adding your app to the Gobot registry](#adding-your-app-to-the-gobot-registry)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Introduction

Gobot installs binary apps anywhere `npm` is available. It transparently downloads, installs, and runs binary apps (including semver ranges) for the current operating system and architecture.

Works on Windows, Linux, OS X.

**Features**

- Run any version of [official apps](#official-gobot-apps) and many [unofficial apps](#running-unofficial-apps) from github.
- Binaries are intelligently downloaded and cached
- New binary versions are automatically detected and downloaded
- Efficient - downloads only what is needed

Inspired by [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) and other packages that install binary dependencies

## Quickstart

**Run an [official app](#official-gobot-apps) from anywhere**

```bash
npx gobot <app>
```

[List of official apps](#official-gobot-apps)

**Try running an [unofficial app](#running-unofficial-apps) using github user/repo**

Gobot will examine releases from Github and attempt to decipher versions, platforms, and architectures.

```bash
gobot <user>/<repo> --help
```

**Install gobot globally**

```bash
npm i -g gobot
```

```bash
gobot pocketbase --help
gobot caddy --help
gobot act --help
```

**Use a Gobot app programmatically**

```bash
npm i gobot
```

```js
import { gobot } from 'gobot'
gobot(`pocketbase`).run([`--help`])
```

**Pass environment variables**

In API mode, Gobot does not forward environment variables by default.

```js
import { gobot } from 'gobot'
gobot(`pocketbase`, {
  env: process.env,
}).run([`--help`])
```

**Use a specific version of a Gobot app**

```js
gobot(`pocketbase`, {
  version: `0.19.3`,
}).run([`--help`])
```

**Add an [official app](#official-gobot-apps) as a project dependency**

```bash
npm i gobot-<app>[@version]
```

Gobot will automatically select the specific version of `<app>` you installed and it will stay locked according to your `package.json` constraints.

```bash
npm i gobot-pocketbase@0.19.3
```

```js
import { gobot } from 'gobot'
gobot(`pocketbase`).run([`--help`])
```

## CLI

Note: All Gobot options begin with `--g-` so as not to conflict with app option switches. Every unrecognized option is passed through to the app binary.

{{globalOptionsMd}}

### `gobot <app> [gobotOptions] [appOptions]`

{{{cliOptionsMd}}}

### `gobot inspect <app> [gobotOptions]`

| Option                  | Default       | Discussion                                   |
| ----------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `--g-help`              | Show help     | Display help and options for Gobot           |
| `--g-v[vv]`             |               | Adjust output verbosity                      |
| `--g-cache-path <path>` | host specific | Use the specified directory for cache files. |

**Examples**

```bash
# Run `pocketbase serve`
npx gobot pocketbase serve

# Run in gobot debugging mode`
npx gobot --g-debug

# Run a specific PocketBase version
npx gobot pocketbase --g-use-version="0.21.0" # Run this exact version
npx gobot pocketbase --g-use-version="~0.21.0" # Run highest 0.21.z version
npx gobot pocketbase --g-use-version="0.*" # Run highest 0.y.z

# Force gobot to dump cache and refresh PocketBase tags and binaries
npx gobot pocketbase --g-refresh
```

## API

[Full API Docs](https://github.com/benallfree/gobot/tree/{{{branch}}}/docs/readme.md)

## Official Gobot Apps

These apps have single-token names and dedicated helper packages to assist with version locking.

{{{availableAppsMd}}}

### Running unofficial apps

Gobot can run many apps hosted on github. Gobot will examine the releases and attempt to decipher binaries based on version, platform, and architecture.

```bash
gobot <user>/<repo>
```

**Example**

```bash
# Run PocketBase as a direct repo name
# rather than the `pocketbase` alias
gobot pocketbase/pocketbase --help
```

or API:

```ts
gobot(`pocketbase/pocketbase`).run([`--help`])
```

The above command format **_may_** run the app you have in mind. For example, `gobot caddy --help` runs the Caddy by the official name, but `gobot caddyserver/caddy --help` will also run it.

As long as the project uses the github [Releases](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository) feature and includes statically linked binaries with zero dependencies, Gobot can probably run it.

Go apps work flawlessly, if the releases are named well. Gobot was originally named and conceived to support Go apps.

{{{postambleMd}}}
